# Andy's Portfolio

This will be a semi-technical overview of my larger projects.

Generally, I close source anything that makes it past prototype phase and has the potential for revenue. 

My [other GitHub repositories](https://github.com/andy98725) represent prototypes or Proof of Concepts.
They _should_ be up to date on documentation as well.


## Skillset

All of these projects are Full Stack in nature.
I like to use a variety of frameworks and languages; each project here uses its own stack.
This is not arbitrary, however. Much consideration goes into the benefits and drawbacks of each tool.

I pay particular mind to the architecture design ahead of time, leading to remarkably high SLA (99.9% uptime) in all published projects.
All of these projects use multithreading to separate calculation-heavy (model updating) concerns from low-latency (rendering, API) concerns.
Microservice architecture is also common, due to its propensity for at-needed scaling.

Although each and every project necessitated a mindful UX design and frontend implementation, the real meat of the projects is in the modeling and often the architecture.

# Base Wars

I acted as the sole developer (2017 - 2020) to a desktop video game written in Java Swing.

The game published on Steam [here](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1747110/Base_Wars/) in October of 2020, to critical success (~500 copies sold and counting).

The game represents a mature codebase (~80,000 LoC) with a variety of features:

- Netcode
    - Client & Server model, where the Server validates & propogates Events generated by Clients.
    - A Rails matchmaking server adds game clients to Redis queue and pairs them FIFO
- Multithreading
    - Render thread, input thread, and model update thread used to separate concerns and keep a consistent framerate
    - Asset loading thread used on startup
    - Immutable model state and event structure designed with synchronicity in mind to minimize race conditions
- UI design
    - Responsive frontend UI changes layouts according to screen size

## Specs

| Application Layer | Language Framework |
| ----------------- | ------------------ |
| Client View | Java Swing |
| Client Model | Java Awt |
| Matchmaking Server | Ruby on Rails |
| Deployment Environment | Steamworks |

# Iperf Professional Edition

Iperf PE is a remote scheduling tool for [Iperf 2](https://sourceforge.net/projects/iperf2/).
It is hosted on [iperf-pe.net](https://iperf-pe.net/) for production and [stg.iperf-pe.net](http://stg.iperf-pe.net/) for staging.

The app is designed with a minimalist UI, presenting essential information efficiently and clearly to the user.
The concepts of Nodes and Test scheduling are succinctly explained and designed to be as streamlined as possible.

The architecture is as follows:

- Frontend (React)
    - Stores session token & handles auth appropriately
    - Makes async API calls and renders relevant data into custom table components
- Backend (Node Express)
    - Uses Sequelize ORM to model & represent Database tables
    - Provides API to frontend for User management and CRUD operations on Nodes and Tests
    - Scheduler thread picks up 
- Database (MySQL)
- Nodes (Golang)
    - A Node is a remote server which the backend can call upon to start / stop Iperf Tests
    - Provided to the user as a GitHub release, currently
    - Uses U/P auth to validate endpoint calls
    - Runs inside a Docker image for environmental flexibility
    - Reports status, uptime, and test results to Backend

## Next Steps

As Iperf PE is still in early prototype phase, there are still fundamental improvements to be done.

- Provide the Node's Docker image directly from a container registry
- Reimplement auth on Nodes as server-provided JWT
- Add a Garbage Collector thread for any bad state Tests

## Specs

| Application Layer | Language Framework |
| ----------------- | ------------------ |
| Frontend | React |
| Backend | Node Express |
| Database | MySQL |
| Deployment Environment | Heroku |

# Idle Elemental

Idle Elemental is an unfolding mobile game still under active development.
It is scheduled for release on the Android App Store in March of 2024 and on-browser in April of 2024.

It utilizes Dart's Flutter framework for efficient separation of Model and View.
The UI layout dynamically changes with a heavy dependence on game state, only showing features as they are unlocked.

This project was initially intended as an excercise in frontend design and optimizing for UX.
It also includes calculus-level math implementation for calculating the fluctuation of resource values for any given delta-time within a highly interconnected system.

## Specs

| Application Layer | Language Framework |
| ----------------- | ------------------ |
| Client View | Flutter |
| Client Model | Flutter Riverpod |
| Deployment Environment | Google App Store, Heroku |



# Portfolio TODO

- Add images & gifs to individual directories
- Update documentation on other repositories
- Update Idle Elemental once published